What are we supposed to say? Just things about AI perhaps? Yeah. OK. Let's see.
Actually, I'm told that—does AI mean love? There’s like a name, AI, it sort of sounds a bit like love?
Yeah, might end up being true. You never know.
I think generally, people underestimate the capability of AI. They sort of think like, it's a smart human. But it's, it's really much—it's going to be much more than that. It’ll be much smarter than the smartest human. It’ll be like, can a chimpanzee really understand humans? Not really, you know. We just seem like strange aliens. They mostly just care about other chimpanzees. And this will be how it is more or less in relativity. In fact, if the difference is only that small, that would be amazing. Probably it's much, much greater. So like, the biggest mistake that I see artificial intelligence researchers making is assuming that they're intelligent. Yeah they're not, compared to AI. And so like, a lot of them cannot imagine something smarter than themselves, but AI will be vastly smarter—vastly.
So what do you do with a situation like that? I'm not sure. You know. I hope they're nice. I mean, I have obviously, some, you know, I think in a situation where if you, you know, the old saying, if you can't beat them, join them. You know, that's what Neuralink is about. Can we be able to go along for the ride with AI? I mean, I really think that there should be other companies like Neuralink, essentially, to create a high bandwidth interface to the brain. Because right now, we are already a cyborg. People don’t realize we are already a cyborg. Because we are so well integrated with our phones and our computers. The phone is almost like an extension of yourself. If you forget your phone, it's like a missing limb. But the bandwidth, the communication bandwidth to the phone is very low, especially input. So in fact, input bandwidth to computers has actually gone down, because typing with two thumbs, as opposed to 10 fingers, is a big reduction in bandwidth. Input bandwidth has gone up because of video and imagery. So input bandwidth is many orders of magnitude greater than output bandwidth. But at a certain point, if we're just—assuming a benign scenario with AI, we will just be too slow. So you know, I always think like human speech, to a computer, will sound like very slow tonal wheezing. It’s kind of like whale sounds …
Including that one?
Yeah. But it's also true that 80 percent of statistics are false.
I don't know, man, that's like, famous last words.
Let me tell you, in general, the rate of advancement of computers is insane. A good example would be videogames. You know, if you go back 40 years ago, 50 years ago maybe, you had you had Pong, that was just two rectangles and a square. Now, you've got photorealistic real-time simulations with millions of people playing simultaneously. If you assume any rate of improvement at all, the games will be indistinguishable from reality, you will not be able to tell the difference. Either that or civilization will end. Those are the two options. But even if the rate of technology improvements slowed down by 1,000, then OK, advanced 1,000 years, or 10,000 years, this is still very tiny. Civilization has been around for probably, arguably, I think 7,000 years or something like that. If you counted from the first time there was any writing, any recorded symbols, besides cave paintings, that’s a very tiny amount of time considering the universe is 13.8 billion years old. I mean, if civilization lasted for a million years, you’d only increment the third decimal point after 13.8 billion years. So that seems like a long time given that we've only been around for 7,000 years, and it's been pretty, it's been kind of a roller coaster, on the civilization front. I'm not trying to be—I’m a naturally optimistic person. To be clear. I'm not saying hey, doom and gloom. I'm just saying that this is the apparent pattern. The rate of change of technology is incredibly fast. It is outpacing our ability to understand it. Well, I'm not sure, is that good or bad? I don't know.
It seemed to me some time ago that you could sort of think of humanity as a biological boot loader for digital super intelligence. For those who don’t know what a boot loader is, it’s a very tiny piece of code without which the computer cannot start. But it's sort of like the minimal bit of code necessary for a computer to start. Like you couldn't evolve silicon circuits—there needed to be biology to get there.
Well, I think the thing about Mars is that I think it's important for us to take the set of actions that are most likely to continue consciousness into the future. What increases the probability of consciousness, of continuing into the future. I think we should not take it for granted that consciousness will continue. Because we have not encountered any aliens, where are the aliens? This is the Fermi paradox. This is one of the most important questions. How come we have not found any aliens? There are people out there who think we've found aliens. Trust me, I would know. We have not.
People ask me, “Have you been to Area 51?” OK, please. SpaceX actually has Area 59, it’s even better, eight better than 51. So among the set of actions we can take, that are likely to increase the scope and scale of consciousness such that we are better able to understand the nature of the universe, one of those actions is to become a multi-planet species or ensure that life is multi-planetary, not because I think—it's not not from the standpoint of it just being an escape hatch, or because I think that Earth is doomed. But there is a certain probability that is irreducible, that something may happen to us, despite our best intentions, despite everything we try to do. There’s a probability at a certain point that some either external force or some internal unforced error causes civilization to be destroyed. Or sufficiently impaired such that it can no longer extend to another planet.
Let me put it another way. This is the first time in the 4 1/2 billion–year history of Earth that it's been possible to extend life beyond Earth. Before this, it was not possible. How long will this window be open? It may be open for a long time, or it may be open for a short time. I think it would be wise to assume that it is open for a short time. And then let us secure the future, secure the future of consciousness, such that life of the lights of consciousness is not extinguished. And we should try to do this as quickly as possible. That's my view.
Yeah. That’s not how it works though.
Sure, I mean, to be clear, I'm very pro Earth. When I say, you know, us becoming a multi-planet species or extending life beyond Earth, expanding the scope and scale of consciousness, from a resource standpoint, I'm talking about less than 1 percent of Earth's resources should be dedicated to making life multi-planetary, or making consciousness multi-planetary. So, you know, I think it should be like, somewhere in between how much we spend on lipstick and how much we spend on health care. You know, things like for the preservation of consciousness, we should spend maybe slightly more than we spend on cosmetics. And I'm pro cosmetics, I think they’re great. But, you know, there's probably worth spending, I don't know, like at least half a percent of the Earth’s GDP on extending life to be multi-planetary, maybe 1 percent, I'd say seems like a good a good use of resources, a wise investment for the future. And obviously, I spend a lot of my time on sustainable energy with Tesla, with electric cars, and solar and batteries and that kind of thing. And I'm really excited to be here in Shanghai for the Shanghai Giga factory. I think the Tesla China team has done an amazing job, really mind-blowing, like, I'm just astounded by how good the job is, and how much progress has been made. And I think it's a good story for the world. So, you know, I think it's like, I really think China is the future. It's very impressive. and there’s also some great progress on entrepreneurial rocket companies in China as well. I believe two have made orbit, and it’s very difficult, very hard to make orbit. If you make orbit, I have great respect. Because it’s very hard.
Sure.
Yeah … I think so if you're working on something that involves people or engineering, it's probably a good approach. You know, art, of course. Like I said, I think we're gonna have to figure out this Neuralink situation. Otherwise, we will be left behind. It's very important we do this quickly. I think time — we don't have much time.
We don't have much time to solve the Neuralink.
Yeah. If you think of like technology and technology awareness, if there was like a topological map of technology awareness, it's mostly flat with a few short buildings, and then some very tall spires. And unless you're on that very tall spire, it's not obvious what the topology is.
Yeah, I would say try to learn as much as possible that allows you to predict the future or make the future. So the saying is that the best way to predict the future is to make it. And then assess whether what you're learning is enabling you to predict the future with less error. Are you less wrong? We are always wrong to some degree. But can you reduce the error on your future predictions? I think that's the way to look at education. Of course it’s both creative, create the future and predict the future. So that includes art and all those other things. But close the loop on being less wrong about the future. I'd say that's the right way to think about education.
I mean, down the road with a Neuralink, you can just upload any subject instantly. So it’ll be like the Matrix. You want to fly a helicopter? No problem. Well, helicopters will fly themselves, but you know, if you want it to do whatever, any given skill, you just upload it instantly. I mean, the way education works right now it's extremely low bandwidth, it’s extremely slow. Lectures are the worst, really. Very slow.
Just try to predict the future with less error. This is very hard. As you're saying. It shows 99.9 percent. But it's not very good, generally a prediction of the future. But I think often people don't try. The first thing is to try. If you don't try, OK, you’ve got to try and then adjust based on the error of your prior predictions.
I very much disagree with that.
The first thing we should assume is that we are very dumb. And we can, we can definitely make things smarter than ourselves. I mean there didn’t used to be humans, right. Our early civilizations were very primitive. We didn't have any technology, really, we're just like running around, you know, trying to not get eaten, or struggling to survive a winter. Now we have like heating and we grow food. This is all new stuff. So, you know, things have obviously gotten way more smarter than the past, way smarter. So that's going to continue. We're not the last step in evolution. So the most important thing, like I said, the most important mistake I see smart people making is assuming that they're smart. They're not.
Well computers actually are already much smarter than than people on so many dimensions. We just keep moving the goalposts. So we used to think like, for example, being good at chess was an example of a smart human. And then Kasparov was crushed by Deep Blue in ‘97. That was a long time ago, 22 years. I mean, right now your cell phone could crush the world champion at chess, literally. Go used to be thought of as something that humans were better at than computers. Then Lee Sedol was beaten four to one by Alpha Zero. Then a new version of Alpha Zero—I should say AlphaGo. AlphaGo beat Lee Sedol. Then there’s Alpha Zero. Alpha Zero crushed AlphaGo 100 to 0. Now it's just pointless because it just keeps playing itself. Humans are—trying to play a computer at Go is like trying to fight Zeus. It's not going to work. Hopeless, we are hopeless. Hopelessly inadequate. In terms of rendering into—basically there's just a smaller and smaller corner of what of intellectual pursuits that humans are better than computers. And that every year, it gets smaller and smaller, and soon will be far far surpassed in every single way. Guaranteed. Or civilization will end. Those are the two possibilities.
Yeah, definitely not.
Sure. OK, well, what would be an example of something that humans are better than a computer at? And then let's see if that happens.
My view on AI is essentially, you can view the advancement of AI as solving things with increasing degrees of freedom. So the thing with the most degrees of freedom is reality. But AI is steadily advanced, solving things that have more and more degrees of freedom. So obviously, it's something like checkers was very easy to solve, that we could solve with classical software, classical computing, not really all that challenging. And in fact, there is a complete solution for checkers, meaning it is literally impossible. Every version of checkers is known. And then there's chess, which also had many, many more degrees of freedom than checkers. Many orders of magnitude more than checkers. But still really, I would say a lower order of magnitude, lower degree of freedom game. Then there's Go, which had many orders of magnitude more degrees of freedom than chess. So it's really just stepping through orders of magnitude of degrees of freedom. This is the way to, I think, view the advancement of intelligence. And it's really gonna get to the point where it just can completely simulate a person in every way possible. I mean, there's a strong argument we're in a simulation right now. It also reminds you of that joke, if life was a video game, what would be the review? It’s like, well, the graphics are incredible, the plot is confusing, and the respawn takes a long time. That's a video game. That's life. It takes 20 years to spawn a human being and have them be fully conscious.
I'm worried about the birth rate, which you alluded to earlier. The contrary to most people think we have too many people on the planet. But actually, this is this is an outdated view. Assuming that AI is fine, or assuming that there's a benevolent future with AI, I think that the biggest problem the world will face in 20 years is population collapse. I want to emphasize this, the biggest issue in 20 years will be population collapse. Not explosion, collapse. It's very easy to see what the world will look like in 20 years, because humans have a 20 year boot sequence. So like you said, who was born last year? OK, now, you know what the world will look like in 20 years. It’s that easy.
Accelerating collapse. And then the common rebuttal is like, what about immigration? Like, from where?
Mars needs people, you know, Mars, people, you know, there's no zero people there right now. It's right now it's the machine planet, there's only some robots there.
AI means love.
I agree, love is the answer. There are many songs about that.
This feels like one of those steps in a video game where you've got like pick a path. I choose life.
Well I think first of all, I think humans will solve environmental sustainability, I do not mean to suggest complacency. Or that we just take it easy. In fact, this is a self fulfilling or unfulfilling prophecy. We must take immediate and dramatic action. And continue the momentum towards environmental sustainability. And China is actually the world leader in this. In fact, I'm not sure how well it is known outside of China, just how much China is a world leader in environmental sustainability. It’s extremely impressive. I mean, I think half of all the electric cars in the world were made in China last year, or something like that. So you know, so I don't mean to suggest complacency. But I do think humans can and will solve sustainability.
If we can, if we can do the Neuralink essentially, age will not matter that much. You can simply save your state and restore your state. Just like a saved game, essentially, something very close to that. I do think we can we can solve biological aging, if we really wanted to, you'd have to make DNA changes, but we’re obviously just on a on a clock, all organisms are. I mean, you could take a fruit fly, for example. And you could have it do daily yoga, and have a very healthy diet and is still going to live for three weeks, maybe four weeks. So environmental factors are relatively minor for extending life, you have to change the DNA. So the question is, like, will people be OK with changing the DNA? that's the thing about extending life, you know, and probably people are a little bit reluctant about that. But that's essentially the thing that needs to occur to extend life. or you've got to stop the DNA clock somehow. I don't know if we should work on this or not. I think, frankly, you know, it's probably a good thing that we do eventually die. You know, there's a saying, like, in physics, like even physicists, which are generally quite objective, is like, there’s a saying that all physicists don't change their mind, they just die. So, maybe, you know, it's good to have this life cycle.
