Elon Musk: What are we supposed to say? Just things about AI perhaps? Yeah. OK. Let's see.

Jack Ma: The AI, right? OK, great.

EM: Actually, I'm told that—does AI mean love? There’s like a name, AI, it sort of sounds a bit like love?

JM: Yeah, AI—I hate the word "AI" called artificial intelligence. I call it Alibaba intelligence.

EM: Yeah, might end up being true. You never know.

I think generally, people underestimate the capability of AI. They sort of think like, it's a smart human. But it's, it's really much—it's going to be much more than that. It’ll be much smarter than the smartest human. It’ll be like, can a chimpanzee really understand humans? Not really, you know. We just seem like strange aliens. They mostly just care about other chimpanzees. And this will be how it is more or less in relativity. In fact, if the difference is only that small, that would be amazing. Probably it's much, much greater. So like, the biggest mistake that I see artificial intelligence researchers making is assuming that they're intelligent. Yeah they're not, compared to AI. And so like, a lot of them cannot imagine something smarter than themselves, but AI will be vastly smarter—vastly.

So what do you do with a situation like that? I'm not sure. You know. I hope they're nice. I mean, I have obviously, some, you know, I think in a situation where if you, you know, the old saying, if you can't beat them, join them. You know, that's what Neuralink is about. Can we be able to go along for the ride with AI? I mean, I really think that there should be other companies like Neuralink, essentially, to create a high bandwidth interface to the brain. Because right now, we are already a cyborg. People don’t realize we are already a cyborg. Because we are so well integrated with our phones and our computers. The phone is almost like an extension of yourself. If you forget your phone, it's like a missing limb. But the bandwidth, the communication bandwidth to the phone is very low, especially input. So in fact, input bandwidth to computers has actually gone down, because typing with two thumbs, as opposed to 10 fingers, is a big reduction in bandwidth. Input bandwidth has gone up because of video and imagery. So input bandwidth is many orders of magnitude greater than output bandwidth. But at a certain point, if we're just—assuming a benign scenario with AI, we will just be too slow. So you know, I always think like human speech, to a computer, will sound like very slow tonal wheezing. It’s kind of like whale sounds …

JM: You have a vision about the technology. I'm not a tech guy. I think I'm all about life. I think AI is going to open a new chapter of the society of the world that people try to understand ourselves better, rather than the outside world. And it's so difficult to predict the future. 99.99 percent of the predictions that human beings had in history about the future—all wrong.

EM: Including that one?

JM: Oh, yeah. Only you know, 0.00 percent of the predictions are right. They’re right but by accident.

EM: Yeah. But it's also true that 80 percent of statistics are false.

JM: I'm happy about the artificial intelligence, or Alibaba intelligence, that's going to understand a human, the inside of the human, better. So when people worry a lot about artificial intelligence, people should have more confidence in themselves. Because I think a lot of solutions we don't have today, but there will be solutions tomorrow. We don't have solutions but the young people will have solutions. So I'm quite optimistic. And I don't think artificial intelligence is a threat. I don't think artificial intelligence is something terrible, but human beings are smart enough to learn that. And to me, artificial intelligence is just like—people worry a lot about this today are those people, I called them college smartness. People like us, street smart, we aren’t scared of that. We think it's a great fun, and we want to challenge ourselves to embrace it.

EM: I don't know, man, that's like, famous last words.Let me tell you, in general, the rate of advancement of computers is insane. A good example would be videogames. You know, if you go back 40 years ago, 50 years ago maybe, you had you had Pong, that was just two rectangles and a square. Now, you've got photorealistic real-time simulations with millions of people playing simultaneously. If you assume any rate of improvement at all, the games will be indistinguishable from reality, you will not be able to tell the difference. Either that or civilization will end. Those are the two options. But even if the rate of technology improvements slowed down by 1,000, then OK, advanced 1,000 years, or 10,000 years, this is still very tiny. Civilization has been around for probably, arguably, I think 7,000 years or something like that. If you counted from the first time there was any writing, any recorded symbols, besides cave paintings, that’s a very tiny amount of time considering the universe is 13.8 billion years old. I mean, if civilization lasted for a million years, you’d only increment the third decimal point after 13.8 billion years. So that seems like a long time given that we've only been around for 7,000 years, and it's been pretty, it's been kind of a roller coaster, on the civilization front. I'm not trying to be—I’m a naturally optimistic person. To be clear. I'm not saying hey, doom and gloom. I'm just saying that this is the apparent pattern. The rate of change of technology is incredibly fast. It is outpacing our ability to understand it. Well, I'm not sure, is that good or bad? I don't know.

It seemed to me some time ago that you could sort of think of humanity as a biological boot loader for digital super intelligence. For those who don’t know what a boot loader is, it’s a very tiny piece of code without which the computer cannot start. But it's sort of like the minimal bit of code necessary for a computer to start. Like you couldn't evolve silicon circuits—there needed to be biology to get there.

JM: Good. Well, let's talk about something fun. I have a mind that you want to go to Mars. So what will life look like on Mars? Are you both moving? What do you think about that? I'm more interested in the Earth, what's going on here. So why are you so curious about Mars?

EM: Well, I think the thing about Mars is that I think it's important for us to take the set of actions that are most likely to continue consciousness into the future. What increases the probability of consciousness, of continuing into the future. I think we should not take it for granted that consciousness will continue. Because we have not encountered any aliens, where are the aliens? This is the Fermi paradox. This is one of the most important questions. How come we have not found any aliens? There are people out there who think we've found aliens. Trust me, I would know. We have not.

People ask me, “Have you been to Area 51?” OK, please. SpaceX actually has Area 59, it’s even better, eight better than 51. So among the set of actions we can take, that are likely to increase the scope and scale of consciousness such that we are better able to understand the nature of the universe, one of those actions is to become a multi-planet species or ensure that life is multi-planetary, not because I think—it's not not from the standpoint of it just being an escape hatch, or because I think that Earth is doomed. But there is a certain probability that is irreducible, that something may happen to us, despite our best intentions, despite everything we try to do. There’s a probability at a certain point that some either external force or some internal unforced error causes civilization to be destroyed. Or sufficiently impaired such that it can no longer extend to another planet.
