The AI, right? OK, great.
Yeah, AI—I hate the word "AI" called artificial intelligence. I call it Alibaba intelligence.
You have a vision about the technology. I'm not a tech guy. I think I'm all about life. I think AI is going to open a new chapter of the society of the world that people try to understand ourselves better, rather than the outside world. And it's so difficult to predict the future. 99.99 percent of the predictions that human beings had in history about the future—all wrong.
Oh, yeah. Only you know, 0.00 percent of the predictions are right. They’re right but by accident.
I'm happy about the artificial intelligence, or Alibaba intelligence, that's going to understand a human, the inside of the human, better. So when people worry a lot about artificial intelligence, people should have more confidence in themselves. Because I think a lot of solutions we don't have today, but there will be solutions tomorrow. We don't have solutions but the young people will have solutions. So I'm quite optimistic. And I don't think artificial intelligence is a threat. I don't think artificial intelligence is something terrible, but human beings are smart enough to learn that. And to me, artificial intelligence is just like—people worry a lot about this today are those people, I called them college smartness. People like us, street smart, we aren’t scared of that. We think it's a great fun, and we want to challenge ourselves to embrace it.
Good. Well, let's talk about something fun. I have a mind that you want to go to Mars. So what will life look like on Mars? Are you both moving? What do you think about that? I'm more interested in the Earth, what's going on here. So why are you so curious about Mars?
Good. It's so difficult to secure the future of the Earth, but we can secure the future of the next 100 years. I admire your courage for exploring Mars, but I admire a lot of people spending efforts on improving the Earth. It's great to send 1 million people to Mars, but we have to care about the 7.4 billion people on Earth. How can we make the world more sustainable?
I think people spend more time on the Earth. Think about it. Because no matter how long the civilization of the human beings will be, like 1 million or 2 million or half million years. But we only have 100 years. So we cannot solve all the problems of the future. But we have to be responsible for the future. But we should care more about how we can enjoy it better. My view is that by the artificial intelligence or AI, when human beings understand ourselves better, then we can improve the world better. The last 200 years, human beings tried to understand the other side better, understand the other people better. But I think what I feel excited about with AI is that AI is to understand people, the inside of the human beings. The Earth, I heard you’re going to dig a tunnel deep in the Earth, which is amazing. I think anyhow, every time I read the news about your interest in outer space, I look at you with great respect. We need heroes like you. But we need more heroes like us, working hard on the Earth, improving things every day. That's what I want.
Should we pick up another topic? Jobs?Jobs or life. Jobs.
So what new jobs will be created because of AI? Or has the change already started? What do you think? My view is that the jobs—actually every technology revolution, people start to worry, right? Last 200 years, we worry about the new technology going to take away all the jobs. Actually, we made a lot of jobs. Second, because of the Industrial Revolution, jobs create a lot of jobs. What I think is the next 20-30 years, human beings will live much longer. The life science technology is going to make people live probably 100 or 120 years. That may not be a good thing, because you got grandfather's grandfather still working hard. But the challenge is, my question is, why should we have a lot of jobs? I think people should work three days a week, four hours a day. Where we have electricity, the power of electricity is that we give people more time, so you can go to the party in the evening, you can go to dancing party in the evening. So because of electricity, people have more time. I think because of artificial intelligence, people will have more time to enjoy being human beings. In your life, in my life I think I visited probably 300 cities in my life. My father visited through 30 cities, my grandfather visited only three cities. So my grandchildren will probably visit 3,000 cities! Always on the Tesla, always traveling around. So I don't think we need a lot of jobs. At that time, the jobs we need are to make people happier, make people experience life, enjoy the human beings. So I don't worry about the jobs a lot. First, we're going to have a lot of jobs. Second, we don't need a lot of jobs. Third, in the agriculture period, average age is like 30-35 years old. In the industry period, technology revolution, people can live 70 years. So in the artificial intelligent period, people can live 120 years I think. Now the problem comes when people's life is getting better, people don't want to have children. When grand-grandfather's there, you don't want to have children. At that time, we are going to have a lot of jobs with nobody. We're old guys. For sure, you will not be happy, because when your grand-grandfather said, I need to work tomorrow, then that's a disaster. So we should be ready, that we are going to enter into the era that everybody can live 120 years. And we have more new problems that come up. So that's my view about jobs. Don't worry about it, we will have jobs.
We don't have much time for what?
Yeah.
Yeah, I never worry about the things that I cannot solve. I left other people to solve it. If nobody can solve it, just let it be. That's my life. Oh, let's talk about education. I'm quite interested in education.So what knowledge or skills will be useful to master the future? Do you have any advice for young professionals who want to pursue a career in AI? Young professionals. I don't think you will have professionals of AI in the future. Well, I worry a lot about—people worry about jobs, but I worry about education. All the education systems, the things we teach our kids, the way we teach our kids, are mainly designed for the industrial period. And I'm sure the machines will be much cleverer than human beings in the future. How can human beings do better? Human beings should be smarter, human beings should be wiser. So how can we, human beings, be wiser, smarter? I think that we should change the way of education. Change things, because in the past, we focus a lot about, you know, remembering things. Computers can remember better than you are. Want to calculate faster? Computer can calculate much faster. Want to run faster? Computer can run much faster than you. So human beings should have confidence by being more creative, more constructive. So how can we teach our kids to be more creative and constructive? And I think this is the key of the education. And I want to spend more time on training kids on arts, on painting, on seeing, on dancing, you know, all these other creative things that make people live like humans. Don't worry about the machines. For sure, we should understand one thing: that man can never make another man.Computer is a computer. A computer is just a toy. Man cannot even make a mosquito. So we should have confidence. Computers only have chips, men have the heart. It's the heart where the wisdom comes from. So I think in the next 10 or 20 years, human beings or every country, every government, should focus on reforming the education system, making sure our kids will be able to find jobs in the future, be able to live a life where they're only working three days a week, four hours a day. And that is very important. If we do not change the education system that we are in, we are all going to be in trouble. That's my view. And don't worry about it, we will change it.
Yeah, I think, just to try is very good, we should always have the confidence to try the future. And I never worry about the errors and mistakes. Errors and mistakes are the best sets of human lives. And humans—I think the when people worry about the disasters that AI is going to bring, I think it's not the disasters. It's the mistakes that human beings make. And trust human beings will be able to correct the mistakes and improve themselves, and for that we need education. In China today, we have [18 million] new babies born every year. Which which is not enough. We need we need to have like much more than that. But I think the best resources of human beings, or the best resources on the Earth, are not the coasts, not the oil, not the electricity. It's the human brains. How can we make the human great brains more creative, more constructive? How can we make sure that the machines are always the toys and tools of humans, rather than the control? So I never in my life, and especially the last two years where people talk about AI say human beings would be controlled by machines. I never think about that. I think it's impossible. Right? It's impossible, because human beings, they are different. Machines are invented by human beings. And according to the science, right, humans can never create another animal that is smarter than humans. Especially when you have so many smart people, it's impossible to make another smart people.
OK, that’s good!
So give me an example, what animals or things that a human being made that is smarter than human beings.
Yeah, my view is that computers may be clever, but human beings are much smarter.
Clever is very academic, is knowledge driven. Smarter is experience driven. Computer is clever. But it's human beings—we invented the computer. I’ve never seen a computer invent a human being. This is my first point. Second point is about playing Go and chess. It's stupid to compete with a computer on played goals. Just like 100 years ago, where human beings created cars. So human beings said, I can’t run faster than a car. It's impossible. It's only stupid people to compete with a car to run faster. Go is designed for human to play with human. Right? The chess is designed for human to human. Why should a human fight against a computer? So I never ever play chess or Go with a computer. I'll be happy to see two computers fight each other. I'm not interested in playing Go with a computer. So I told those guys, they are very upset. Computer will be smarter human beings because computer can play chess better. I think you are stupid to compete with that. Don't do that. So this is … only do things we are good at.
Well, a computer is only one of the clever tools that humans created. and computers are clever, but there will be more tools that human beings will create, much cleverer than computers. That's my view.
I absolutely agree that the population problem is going to face a huge challenge. 1.4 billion people in China sounds a lot, but I think in the next 20 years we will see this thing will bring big trouble to China, and the population decreasing—the speed of population decreasing is going to speed up. Now you called it a collapse. I agree with that.
Yeah, you want to go to Mars...
This is something that we should pay special attention—that's why the the 18 million new babies born in China, which was less than only like 1 percent of something, we should spend more time creating these people and treat life better. In our company, AI we call Alibaba intelligence because we think when things with order, with things with logic, machines can always do better, AI can do better. But if things wisdom or without logic, human beings can do better. For example, when you love somebody, there's no reason. Normally, I just love him or just love her, I have no reason. But when I hate somebody, when I want to do bad things on something, somebody, there's a logic and when there's logic, AI can do better. We teach machines all the bad things that bad guys want to do. Machines can learn quickly, and arrest all the bad guys immediately. But when you want to do good things, not necessarily.
That's absolutely right. So that is why the world—if AI can bring love, which I called in the past, if you have the successful person, you have to have EQ and IQ, right? In the future, if you want to survive in this world, you have to be the LQ— the Q of love, that's important too. Otherwise cannot survive in that deficient. Talent is time.
So you want to talk about machines, life? Or do you want to talk about your cars, autonomy? What do you want to talk?
OK, life. So how much longer do you think people can live with the help of AI? Can AI help with environment sustainability?
I think AI can definitely help the environment sustainability. And when human beings know themselves better, human beings will be smarter and will be wiser. The difference between clever people, and smart people or wise people: smart people knows what he wants, and how he can get it. wise people know what he doesn't want. So when human beings use artificial intelligence, they will understand themselves better. And I think there will be millions of ways people will live in a healthy Earth, and protect the healthy Earth. The reason why I want to stay in this Earth, I want to work on this Earth, I want to do anything I can to help this Earth to better because going to the space is great, but if we can spend our resources, just to focus on helping pick up the garbage from the oceans, that thing is more difficult than going to Mars. But artificial intelligence can help us achieve that, and solve the problems. And the second human being can live better, can live longer. But what we need is not only to live longer, we want to live healthier. How can we live healthier, is to understand us better. Most of the disease is caused by our behavior. So I'm 100 percent sure people will live longer, people will live healthier, but may not necessarily live happier. If you want to be happier, human beings are focused on value, the vision and the mission, and always have dreams. And I don't want people love technology and put their dreams on the technology. I think that technology should be with dreams. It's not technology that changes the world, it’s the dreams behind the technologies that change the world. So my hope is that anything we can do to improve this world, to helping 7.4 billion people live better, live healthier. And this is all about our world. And I think what will be working very happily because I love your product, Tesla. You know making world cleaner, and no noise and such great technology. I'm happy you have the factory in China. And I think we need to do more things to improve this Earth, improve this world, and make sure that that people are happier, and people care about the family, people care about the health. That's all we should do. And trust us, trust a human beings, and trust young people. Let's take responsibility for today. But let's not take away all the solutions for tomorrow. It's great human beings make mistakes. It's great human beings learn from mistakes. It's great to die.
